docs/src/comparison.md, before:

# Cliar vs. Click vs. docopt

It may seem strange to develop yet another Python package for CLI creation when we already have great tools like Click and docopt. Why not use one of those?

It turns out there's at least one area where Click and docopt just won't do—*modular CLI*. Below, I'll try to explain what I mean by modular CLIs and why they are important. A will also cover other things that make Cliar special.

Name | Modular CLIs | DSL-free | Magic-free | Type casting | Uses type hints
---- | ------------ | -------- | ---------- | ------------ | ---------------
[Cliar](https://moigagoo.github.io/cliar/) | ✔ | ✔ | ✔ | ✔ | ✔
[Click](http://click.pocoo.org/) | ❌ | ✔ | ❌ | ✔ | ❌
[docopt](http://docopt.org/) | ❌ | ❌ | ✔ | ❌ | ❌


## Modular CLIs

Imagine you're developing a CLI-based audio player. You want it to have a ton of features but you don't want to develop them all on your own. The core version will only play a given file, but the rest of the functionality will be implemented with extensions.

You want the usage of the player to be something like this:

```shell
$ player play file.mp3          # Core functionality
$ pip install player.ext.seek   # Install extension
$ player seek "1:23"            # Extension-provided functionality
```

This approach has several benefits:

-   the user will be able to install only the parts they need
-   you will be able to delegate responsibility to the community
-   new commands are added via a unified API, which is the same for core and third-party developers

So, your job is provide a way for third parties to add commands to the basic CLI and override existing commands.

**With docopt** this is almost impossible since CLIs are declared in plaintext using a DSL:

```python
'''Player.

Usage:
  player play <file>
  player (-h | --help)

Options:
  -h --help     Show this screen.
'''
from docopt import docopt


if __name__ == '__main__':
    arguments = docopt(__doc__)
```

Adding a new command means adding a line into a spec before it gets parsed, so the on;y way an extension can add a new command to the base CLI is by inserting lines into the base CLI spec. This is inconvenient if you're adding one command, but it's a nightmare if you're creating an API for adding unlimited commands:

```python
'''Player.

Usage:
  player play <file>
  player (-h | --help)

Options:
  -h --help     Show this screen.
'''
from docopt import docopt

from player.ext.seek import insert_seek_command
# "insert_seek_command" function inserts "player seek <pos>"
# after "player play". You can already feel how quickly it gets old.
if __name__ == '__main__':
    extended_doc = insert_seek_command(__doc__)
    arguments = docopt(extended_doc)
```

**With Click**, you can reuse commands from one CLI in another one:

```python
# In file a:
cli = click.Group()

@cli.command()
def cmd_a(): print("You called cmd_a")


# In file b:

from a import cli

@cli.command()
def cmd_b(): print("You called cmd_b")
```

>  Thanks to /u/Brian for the [code sample](https://www.reddit.com/r/Python/comments/3j28oa/cliar_create_clis_clearly_cliar_103_documentation/culnqg2).

However, you can't reuse commands from multiple third-party modules in one CLI, which is what we want. That's because command reuse relations are defined with decorators, and you can't decorate an imported function. In other words, you can create a new player that implements `seek` and borrows `play` from `player`, but you can't add `seek` into `player`.

**With Cliar**, extending an existing CLI is trivial. Since in Cliar a CLI is a regular Python class, extending it means extending the class the most natural way—with inheritance. Just subclass your CLI from as many ``Cliar`` ancestors as you need:

```python
from cliar import Cliar

# Basic CLI:
class BasicCLI(CLiar):
    def play(self, path):
        ...

# Seek extension:
class SeekCLI(Cliar):
    def seek(self, position):
        ...

# Complete CLI:

class CLI(BasicCLI, SeekCLI, *MoreExtensions):
    '''The complete CLI that borrows from the basic CLI and extensionss.

    Notice that the class body is empty: the logic is already implemented by the parents.
    '''
    pass
```

Cliar relies on Python's standard mechanisms and doesn't reinvent the wheel when it comes to adding new features to objects. Python supports both single and multiple inheritance, so CLI extension goes both ways: you can create a completely new interface that borrows from an existing one or build an interface from extensions.


## DSL-free

I believe that whenever pure Python does the trick, we should avoid DSLs. Every new DSL requires time to learn, and the knowledge you gain is virtually useless anywhere outside the scope of the DSL, which is by definition limited by the app it's used by. This thought along with other great ones has been beautifully explained by Robert E Brewer in [The Zen in Cherrypy](https://pyvideo.org/pycon-us-2010/pycon-2010--the-zen-of-cherrypy---111.html).

**In Docopt**, you describe your CLI using a special DSL. You then ask docopt to parse the commandline string and pass the extracted values to the business logic. The interface is completely separated from the business logic.

It may seem like a good idea until you actually start using docopt. In reality, you end up duplicating argument definitions: once in the DSL and then in the business logic:

```python
'''Player.

Usage:
  player play <file>
  player seek <position>
  player (-h | --help)

Options:
  -h --help     Show this screen.
'''
from docopt import docopt


def play(file):
    ...

def seek(position):
    ...

if __name__ == '__main__':
    arguments = docopt(__doc__)

    if arguments.get('play'):
        play(arguments['<file>'])
    elif arguments.get('seek'):
        seek(arguments['<position>'])
    # ...and so on and so on.
```

Even in this toy example you can see how much redundant code this pattern creates.

Commit message:

Docs: Comparison: Finish DSL-free section.

docs/src/comparison.md, after:

# Cliar vs. Click vs. docopt

It may seem strange to develop yet another Python package for CLI creation when we already have great tools like Click and docopt. Why not use one of those?

It turns out there's at least one area where Click and docopt just won't do—*modular CLI*. Below, I'll try to explain what I mean by modular CLIs and why they are important. A will also cover other things that make Cliar special.

Name | Modular CLIs | DSL-free | Magic-free | Type casting | Uses type hints
---- | ------------ | -------- | ---------- | ------------ | ---------------
[Cliar](https://moigagoo.github.io/cliar/) | ✔ | ✔ | ✔ | ✔ | ✔
[Click](http://click.pocoo.org/) | ❌ | ✔ | ❌ | ✔ | ❌
[docopt](http://docopt.org/) | ❌ | ❌ | ✔ | ❌ | ❌


## Modular CLIs

Imagine you're developing a CLI-based audio player. You want it to have a ton of features but you don't want to develop them all on your own. The core version will only play a given file, but the rest of the functionality will be implemented with extensions.

You want the usage of the player to be something like this:

```shell
$ player play file.mp3          # Core functionality
$ pip install player.ext.seek   # Install extension
$ player seek "1:23"            # Extension-provided functionality
```

This approach has several benefits:

-   the user will be able to install only the parts they need
-   you will be able to delegate responsibility to the community
-   new commands are added via a unified API, which is the same for core and third-party developers

So, your job is provide a way for third parties to add commands to the basic CLI and override existing commands.

**With docopt** this is almost impossible since CLIs are declared in plaintext using a DSL:

```python
'''Player.

Usage:
  player play <file>
  player (-h | --help)

Options:
  -h --help     Show this screen.
'''
from docopt import docopt


if __name__ == '__main__':
    arguments = docopt(__doc__)
```

Adding a new command means adding a line into a spec before it gets parsed, so the on;y way an extension can add a new command to the base CLI is by inserting lines into the base CLI spec. This is inconvenient if you're adding one command, but it's a nightmare if you're creating an API for adding unlimited commands:

```python
'''Player.

Usage:
  player play <file>
  player (-h | --help)

Options:
  -h --help     Show this screen.
'''
from docopt import docopt

from player.ext.seek import insert_seek_command
# "insert_seek_command" function inserts "player seek <pos>"
# after "player play". You can already feel how quickly it gets old.
if __name__ == '__main__':
    extended_doc = insert_seek_command(__doc__)
    arguments = docopt(extended_doc)
```

**With Click**, you can reuse commands from one CLI in another one:

```python
# In file a:
cli = click.Group()

@cli.command()
def cmd_a(): print("You called cmd_a")


# In file b:

from a import cli

@cli.command()
def cmd_b(): print("You called cmd_b")
```

>  Thanks to /u/Brian for the [code sample](https://www.reddit.com/r/Python/comments/3j28oa/cliar_create_clis_clearly_cliar_103_documentation/culnqg2).

However, you can't reuse commands from multiple third-party modules in one CLI, which is what we want. That's because command reuse relations are defined with decorators, and you can't decorate an imported function. In other words, you can create a new player that implements `seek` and borrows `play` from `player`, but you can't add `seek` into `player`.

**With Cliar**, extending an existing CLI is trivial. Since in Cliar a CLI is a regular Python class, extending it means extending the class the most natural way—with inheritance. Just subclass your CLI from as many ``Cliar`` ancestors as you need:

```python
from cliar import Cliar

# Basic CLI:
class BasicCLI(CLiar):
    def play(self, path):
        ...

# Seek extension:
class SeekCLI(Cliar):
    def seek(self, position):
        ...

# Complete CLI:

class CLI(BasicCLI, SeekCLI, *MoreExtensions):
    '''The complete CLI that borrows from the basic CLI and extensionss.

    Notice that the class body is empty: the logic is already implemented by the parents.
    '''
    pass
```

Cliar relies on Python's standard mechanisms and doesn't reinvent the wheel when it comes to adding new features to objects. Python supports both single and multiple inheritance, so CLI extension goes both ways: you can create a completely new interface that borrows from an existing one or build an interface from extensions.


## DSL-free

I believe DSLs should be avoided whenever pure Python is enough. A DSL requires time to learn, and the knowledge you gain is virtually useless anywhere outside the scope of the DSL, which is by definition the app it's used in.

!!! note
    This thought along with other great ones has been beautifully explained by Robert E Brewer in [The Zen in Cherrypy](https://pyvideo.org/pycon-us-2010/pycon-2010--the-zen-of-cherrypy---111.html).

**In Docopt**, you describe your CLI using a DSL. Then, you ask docopt to parse the commandline string and pass the extracted values to the business logic. The interface is completely separated from the business logic.

It may seem a good idea until you actually start using docopt. What happens is you end up duplicating argument definitions all the time:

```python
'''Player.

Usage:
  player play <file>
  player seek <position>
  player (-h | --help)

Options:
  -h --help     Show this screen.
'''                                     # one time
from docopt import docopt


def play(file):                         # two times
    ...

def seek(position):
    ...

if __name__ == '__main__':
    arguments = docopt(__doc__)

    if arguments.get('play'):           # three times
        play(arguments['<file>'])
    elif arguments.get('seek'):
        seek(arguments['<position>'])
    ...                                 # ...and it goes on and on and on.
```

Even in this toy example you can see how much redundant code this pattern spawns.

**Click** and **Cliar** are DSL-free. Whereas docopt is "spec first," Click and Cliar and "code first": they generate the usage text from the code, not the other way around.
